added tech preview content for rbac in observability (#6656)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/customize_observability.adoc

  wildcardPolicy: None
----

[#configure-fine-grain-rbac]
== Configuring fine-grain RBAC (Technology Preview)

> To restrict metrics access to specific namespaces within the cluster, use fine-grain role based access control (RBAC). Using fine-grain RBAC, you can allow application teams to only view the metrics for the namespaces that you gave them permission to access. 

Reviewer: From my perspective, metric access (singular) is the subject and restrict is the verb. i would change metrics to metric
```suggestion
To restrict metric access to specific namespaces within the cluster, use fine-grain role-based access control (RBAC). Using fine-grain RBAC, you can allow application teams to only view the metrics for the namespaces that you give them permission to access. 
```

> You must configure metrics access control on the hub cluster for the users of that hub cluster. On this hub cluster, a `ManagedCluster` custom resource represents every managed cluster. To configure RBAC and to choose the allowed namespaces, use the rules and action verbs specified in the `ManagedCluster` custom resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure metric access control on the hub cluster for the users of that hub cluster. On this hub cluster, a `ManagedCluster` custom resource represents every managed cluster. To configure RBAC and to choose the allowed namespaces, use the rules and action verbs specified in the `ManagedCluster` custom resources. 
```

> For example, you have an application named, `my-awesome-app`, and this application is on two different managed clusters, `devcluster1` and `devcluster2`. Consequently, the application is deployed into two namespaces on the manged clusters: `AwesomeAppNS1` and `AwesomeAppNS2`. You have an admin user group named, `my-awesome-app-admins`, and you want to restrict this user group to only have access to metrics from only these two namespaces on the hub cluster. 

Reviewer: I recommend monospacing admin or writing out "administrative"
```suggestion
For example, you have an application named, `my-awesome-app`, and this application is on two different managed clusters, `devcluster1` and `devcluster2`. Consequently, the application is deployed into two namespaces on the managed clusters: `AwesomeAppNS1` and `AwesomeAppNS2`. You have an `admin` user group named, `my-awesome-app-admins`, and you want to restrict this user group to only have access to metrics from only these two namespaces on the hub cluster. 
```

In this example, to use fine-grain RBAC to restrict the user group access, complete the following steps: 

. Define a `ClusterRole` with permissions to access metrics by using the following YAML: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role
rules:
 - apiGroups:
     - "cluster.open-cluster-management.io"
   resources:
     - managedclusters # fixed
   resourceNames: # represents list of managed clusters
     - devcluster1
     - devcluster2

>    verbs: # represents namespaces of managed clusters

Reviewer: let's also make these callouts instead of keeping them as hashtags. I'm not sure about  the "fixed" comment. I would ask for clarification and delete if it's unnecessary

>    Verbs: # represents namespaces of managed clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   verbs: # represents namespaces of managed clusters
```

Should be lowercase

> . Define a `ClusterRole` with permissions to access metrics by using the following YAML: 
> +
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
> kind: ClusterRole
> metadata:
>  name: awesome-app-metrics-role
> rules:
>  - apiGroups:
>      - "cluster.open-cluster-management.io"
>    resources:
>      - managedclusters # fixed
>    resourceNames: # represents list of managed clusters
>      - devcluster1
>      - devcluster2
>    Verbs: # represents namespaces of managed clusters
>      - metrics/AwesomeAppNS1
>      - metrics/AwesomeAppNS2
> ----
> +
> . Define a `ClusterRoleBinding` that binds the group, `admy-awesome-app-admins my-awesome-app-admins`, with the `ClusterRole` for the `awesome-app-metrics-role`. Use the following YAML: 
> +
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> kind: ClusterRoleBinding
> apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
> metadata:
>  name: awesome-app-metrics-role-binding
> subjects:
>  - kind: Group
>    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
>    name: my-awesome-app-admins
> roleRef:
>  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
>  kind: ClusterRole
>  name: awesome-app-metrics-role
> ----
> +
> . Define separate `ClusterRoles` and `ClusterRoleBindings` to represent the different managed clusters in the namespaces. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Define a `ClusterRole` resource with permissions to access metrics. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role
rules:
 - apiGroups:
     - "cluster.open-cluster-management.io"
   resources:
     - managedclusters # fixed
   resourceNames: # represents list of managed clusters
     - devcluster1
     - devcluster2
   Verbs: # represents namespaces of managed clusters
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS1
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS2
----

. Define a `ClusterRoleBinding` resource that binds the group, `my-awesome-app-admins`, with the `ClusterRole` resource for the `awesome-app-metrics-role`. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role-binding
subjects:
 - kind: Group
   apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
   name: my-awesome-app-admins
roleRef:
 apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
 kind: ClusterRole
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role
----

. Define separate `ClusterRoles` and `ClusterRoleBindings` resources to represent the different managed clusters in the namespaces. 

```

After completing these steps, when the users in the `my-awesome-app-admins` log into the Grafana console, they have the following restrictions: 

* Users see no data for dashboards that summarize fleet level data. 

> * Users can only select managed clusters and namespaces specified in the `ClusterRole`.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Users can only select managed clusters and namespaces specified in the `ClusterRole` resource.   
```

For example, you have an application named, `my-awesome-app`, and this application is on two different managed clusters, `devcluster1` and `devcluster2`. The application is deployed into two namespaces on the managed clusters: `AwesomeAppNS1` and `AwesomeAppNS2`. You have an `admin` user group named, `my-awesome-app-admins`, and you want to restrict this user group to only have access to metrics from only these two namespaces on the hub cluster. 

In this example, to use fine-grain RBAC to restrict the user group access, complete the following steps: 

. Define a `ClusterRole` resource with permissions to access metrics. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role
rules:
 - apiGroups:
     - "cluster.open-cluster-management.io"
   resources:

>      - managedclusters: <fixed>
>    resourceNames: <represents list of managed clusters>
>      - devcluster1
>      - devcluster2
>    verbs: <represents namespaces of managed clusters> 
>      - metrics/AwesomeAppNS1
>      - metrics/AwesomeAppNS2
> ----
> 

Reviewer: When you have callouts, you describe the callouts after the example
```suggestion
     - managedclusters: <1>
   resourceNames: <2>
     - devcluster1
     - devcluster2
   verbs: <3> 
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS1
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS2
----
<1> The supported parameter values are `fixed` and ... "Im not sure what other parameter value is supported. What does fixed mean?"
<2> Represents the list of managed clusters.
<3> Represents the namespaces of the managed clusters.
```

  wildcardPolicy: None
----

[#configure-fine-grain-rbac]
== Configuring fine-grain RBAC (Technology Preview)

To restrict metric access to specific namespaces within the cluster, use fine-grain role-based access control (RBAC). Using fine-grain RBAC, you can allow application teams to only view the metrics for the namespaces that you give them permission to access. 

You must configure metric access control on the hub cluster for the users of that hub cluster. On this hub cluster, a `ManagedCluster` custom resource represents every managed cluster. To configure RBAC and to select the allowed namespaces, use the rules and action verbs specified in the `ManagedCluster` custom resources. 

> For example, you have an application named, `my-awesome-app`, and this application is on two different managed clusters, `devcluster1` and `devcluster2`. These clusters have the same namespace, `AwesomeAppNS`. You have an `admin` user group named, `my-awesome-app-admins`, and you want to restrict this user group to only have access to metrics from only these two namespaces on the hub cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you have an application named, `my-awesome-app`, and this application is on two different managed clusters, `devcluster1` and `devcluster2`. Both clusters are in the `AwesomeAppNS` namespace. You have an `admin` user group named, `my-awesome-app-admins`, and you want to restrict this user group to only have access to metrics from only these two namespaces on the hub cluster. 
```

In this example, to use fine-grain RBAC to restrict the user group access, complete the following steps: 

. Define a `ClusterRole` resource with permissions to access metrics. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role
rules:
 - apiGroups:
     - "cluster.open-cluster-management.io"
   resources:
     - managedclusters: <1>
   resourceNames: <2>
     - devcluster1
     - devcluster2
   verbs: <3> 
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS1
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS2
----

> <1> The supported parameter values are `fixed` and ... "Im not sure what other parameter value is supported. What does fixed mean?"

Reviewer 3: is this sentence expected?  What does fixed mean

Author: Thanks @ch-stark for reviewing :) 

The "fixed" comment is kind of a point of confusion for all of us, lol 

What do you think of my new revision where I simply say: 

< 1 > Represents the parameter values for the managed clusters.

Reviewer 3: @jc-berger lgtm thank you

<2> Represents the list of managed clusters.
<3> Represents the namespaces of the managed clusters.

> . Define a `ClusterRoleBinding` resource that binds the group, `my-awesome-app-admins`, with the `ClusterRole` resource for the `awesome-app-metrics-role`. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Define a `ClusterRoleBinding` resource that binds the group, `my-awesome-app-admins`, with the `ClusterRole` resource for the `awesome-app-metrics-role`. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 
```

  wildcardPolicy: None
----

[#configure-fine-grain-rbac]
== Configuring fine-grain RBAC (Technology Preview)

To restrict metric access to specific namespaces within the cluster, use fine-grain role-based access control (RBAC). Using fine-grain RBAC, you can allow application teams to only view the metrics for the namespaces that you give them permission to access. 

You must configure metric access control on the hub cluster for the users of that hub cluster. On this hub cluster, a `ManagedCluster` custom resource represents every managed cluster. To configure RBAC and to select the allowed namespaces, use the rules and action verbs specified in the `ManagedCluster` custom resources. 

> For example, you have an application named, `my-awesome-app`, and this application is on two different managed clusters, `devcluster1` and `devcluster2`. The application is deployed into two namespaces on the managed clusters: `AwesomeAppNS1` and `AwesomeAppNS2`. You have an `admin` user group named, `my-awesome-app-admins`, and you want to restrict this user group to only have access to metrics from only these two namespaces on the hub cluster. 

Reviewer 4: nit: Might be clearer that both clusters have the same namespace (as that is more likely) the example gets a little tricky to follow with multiple namespaces like this, and the final effect is the same.

. Define a `ClusterRole` resource with permissions to access metrics. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role
rules:
 - apiGroups:
     - "cluster.open-cluster-management.io"
   resources:
     - managedclusters: <1>
   resourceNames: <2>
     - devcluster1
     - devcluster2
   verbs: <3> 
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS1
     - metrics/AwesomeAppNS2
----
<1> Represents the parameter values for the managed clusters. 
<2> Represents the list of managed clusters.
<3> Represents the namespaces of the managed clusters.

. Define a `ClusterRoleBinding` resource that binds the group, `my-awesome-app-admins`, with the `ClusterRole` resource for the `awesome-app-metrics-role`. Your resource might resemble the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role-binding
subjects:
 - kind: Group
   apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
   name: my-awesome-app-admins
roleRef:
 apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
 kind: ClusterRole
 name: awesome-app-metrics-role
----

> . Define separate `ClusterRoles` and `ClusterRoleBindings` resources to represent the different managed clusters in the namespaces. 

Reviewer 2: For the example scenario I believe no additional resources needs to be added? I think this sentence could be confused to mean that one needs to add more resources to setup fine-grained rbac for the scenario.

If the sentence is meant to explain that one can add similar CR/CRB to setup a different set of user access, I think it the language can be improved a little and we should move it to the end of the section, so that we don't break focus on the specific scenario.
